Hi and welcome back.
In this video, I wanted to show you
how to yield from another iterator in Python.
So let's look at some code, I think that's gonna be
the easiest way to understand what's going on.
From collections, I'm gonna import the deque
and then we're gonna create a friends deque
and that is going to take in Rolf, Jose,
Charlie, Jen and Anna
and then we're gonna have a get_friend function,
that just does yield from friends,
okay, if we then call sort of c is get_friend
and we do next of c, next of c,
what we're gonna get, if we run this file,
oh, of course we have to print,
that is always helpful
is Rolf and Jose, so this yield from,
you can think of it for now, not forever,
we're gonna change this soon,
you can think of it for now
as just getting the next value of another thing,
that you can get a value from,
so what it's getting here is the first element of this deque
and then when you call next again,
it's getting the next element of this deque,
it allows you to sort of yield
from existing iterators, okay,
essentially this has now become a generator,
that gives you each value of a list or a deque in this case,
it's a good way of creating a generator of something,
instead of doing, you know, x for x in friends,
which would be another way of doing this.
Let's use this generator now in another function,
so what we're gonna do is define a greet function,
that is going to take in a generator
and it's just going to run an infinite loop
and it's gonna try to get the next value of that generator
and it's gonna yield HELLO friend,
if it fails to do that, because there's a StopIteration,
then it's just gonna pass and it's gonna do nothing, okay.
Now this may not make much sense,
until we start sort of using this.
I'm gonna minimise that just so we get a bit more space.
What we're gonna do is gonna get a friend's generator
and that's gonna be our get_friend
and then we're gonna create another generator,
which is gonna be our greet generator
and that's gonna get our friend's generator passed into it,
okay, hopefully this makes sense.
Our generator here, we can call next on it
and it gives us Rolf, then we can call next on it
and it gives us Jose, and so forth,
we're giving that generator to our greet function
and what that does is it goes over a whole for loop
and it's gonna try to get the next value
of the generator we passed in, that's our friends generator,
that's gonna be Rolf, the first time
and it's gonna yield back to us this string, HELLO Rolf,
if it cannot get the next value,
because it's run out of values in this deque,
then it's going to just do nothing
and we're going to end this loop,
okay, it's gonna raise a StopIteration there,
let's have a wee look at how this would go.
Again, all that's happening here
is we are calling the next of this greet generator,
which is going inside this loop
and it's gonna move over to this yield,
it's gonna yield HELLO Rolf and then it's gonna suspend,
when we press next of g again, it's gonna proceed,
it's gonna go back into the top of the loop,
it's gonna get the next value of the friend
and it's gonna yield HELLO Jose,
okay, so the fact that this is a while loop
doesn't mean it's gonna run continuously,
because we've got the yield,
so the function is gonna suspend every time we call next.
Let's run this file again
and you can see now that we get sort of what you'd expect,
HELLO Rolf and HELLO Jose.
What we've got here is some pretty awesome thing,
even if it's not so clear yet,
because when we call next on this top level function,
that is then running this function up to the first element
and then both of these suspend,
when we call next again, this one continues,
then it asks to continue this one,
which then gets the next value, returns it here
and then it yields it back to us,
so there's a chain here of calls
that are going down our functions,
one function is running another, which is running another,
but really none of these are running, until we call next,
so we can use next to start this chain of run times,
which is pretty awesome.
Okay, now let's go over to look at something else,
in the next video, we're going to see
how the yield statement can be used to receive data,
I'll see you there.